Dieka Mirsha and I worked together while being 9000 miles apart on this year's virtual GrizzHacks 5 Hackathon through Devpost.

Omar's COntribution:
I worked on the project with tremendous efforts as did, just alike, my team-mate. I helped create the team and lead it with project management.
With the help of learning the new system from my partner, I utilized and made codes to create the visual representations of data.

Diek's Contribution:
I worked on importing the libraries for the datasets such as Pandas,Matplotlib also provided the knowledge and advised the team about 
python codes and to pursue which libraries we need to work with such as pandas and matplotlib. And, this is my first hacka thon project 
with my teammate who is 9,000 miles away. The experience related to our first hackathon, was absolutely amazing and insightful. 
At last, it's all about the team effort and zeal to achieve your goal together.

Find more relevant infromation below:
Inspiration-
We tried to look at relevant information as it pertained to the real world, so we thought what better to crunch data on than the most prevalent hot topic: Policing.

What it does-
This project takes the total number of deaths by police in the United States and visualizes the data to break it into a few categories: Deaths by race, gender, state, age, 
mental illness, fleeing, and threat level.

How I built it-
We used Anaconda version of Python to utilize Jupyter Notebook, which then allowed us to use libraries such as Pandas and Matplotlib.

Challenges I ran into-
This project started with two go-getters and quick learners with only problems. There were no plus sides as we both nearly 9,000 miles apart completed all of these tasks via 
only text messaging and had the basic understanding of python. 
We tackled and learned every function and command line as we went, so when locating challenges, everything was a challenge that we fiercely defeated!

Accomplishments that I'm proud of-
We are proud that have utilized downloaded the Anaconda version of Python which allows us to utilize the libraries. Most importantly, this was the first and successful data science
project we have completed! It visualizes the data just as we have hoped for it too.

What I learned-
We learned how to import libraries in order to visualize the data which was also imported from excel. We were able to clean the data, however, it was not necessary at all. We then 
learned to visualize parts of the graph to display the columns and variables we wanted.

What's next for US Police Shootings-
What's next is that data never lies, it should be utilized by government officials, public speakers, and people in general to have the facts of policing in the United States by case 
for the past 4 years. Decisions should be made from visualizations of the graph.

Read more about the issue at: https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/investigations/police-shootings-database/

Built With-
jupyternotebook
matplotlib
pandas
python
